# Node modules

### Native modules

- File system
    - **fs** - Lets you read, write, and manage files and directories.
    - **path** - Helps you work with and manipulate file and directory paths.

- Console
    - **http** - Allows you to create HTTP servers and make HTTP requests.

### Third-party modules

- Languages compliments
    - **Axios** - Promise based HTTP client for the browser and node.js.
    - **TypeScript** - TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript that compiles to clean JavaScript output.

- Front-end
    - **JQuery** - JavaScript library for DOM operations.
    - **Bootstrap** - CSS framework
    - **React** - JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
        - **React Router DOM** - Routing library for React.
        - **Styled Components** - CSS-in-JS library for styling React components.
        - **Framer Motion** - A React library for building animations.

- Full-stack
    - **Next.js** - Framework for server-rendered React applications.

- Back-end
    - **JSON Server** - Fake REST API for prototyping or as a full-stack test double.
    - **Express** - Fast, unopinionated, minimalist web framework for node.

- Databases
    - **MongoDB** - A document database with the scalability and flexibility that you want with the querying and indexing that you need.
        - **Mongoose** - MongoDB object modeling tool.

- Authentication
    - **JSON Web Token** - Library for JWT authentication.

- Development tools
    - **Webpack** - Module bundler.

- Utilities
    - **Nodemon** - Monitor for any changes in your node.js application and automatically restart the server.
    - **Concurrently** - Run multiple commands concurrently.
    - **Moment** - Date and time.