# REST (Representational State Transfer)

A REST API (Representational State Transfer) is a type of API (application programming interface) that follows the principles of the REST architectural style, allowing communication between systems over the web.

- Client-server: The separation between the client and the server allows both to evolve independently. The client makes requests, the server provides responses with the API being the middleman.

- Stateless: Each request made to the server is independent. The server doesn't "remember" what you ordered before. Each time you make a request, you must include everything the server needs to know (such as authentication, request data, etc.).

- Cacheability: Responses must indicate whether they can be cached or not. This improves performance by avoiding repeating the same requests.

- Uniform interface: In a REST API, uniform interface means that all interactions follow a standard. This makes it easier to use, because the client always knows how to request (using HTTP verbs such as GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) and how the resources will be responded to (in JSON format, for example).

- Resources: The main entities are called resources. Each resource represents an object or data that can be accessed via a URL and manipulated.

- Representations: Resources are manipulated by their representations (hence the "Representational" in the name). A resource can be represented in different formats such as JSON, XML, HTML, etc.

**RESTful** - When an API or service follows all REST principles, it is called RESTful.