## Spring

Spring is an open source framework for Java that simplifies the development of robust, scalable and easy to maintain applications. It was created to solve common problems in Java projects, such as object management, component configuration, and technologies integration (databases, web APIs, etc.). Instead of writing repetitive or complex code, Spring offers ready to use tools.

## Installation

**Maven**

Maven is a Build automation tool based on a declarative model. It uses a configuration file called `pom.xml` (Project Object Model), written in XML, where you define the project facilities, plugins, configurations and the build process. Maven follows a "Convention on Configuration" approach, that is, it assumes patterns for project structure (such as where to place source code files and tests), but allows personalization.

- Create a new project in IntelliJ IDEA and select 'Maven Archetype' in generators.
- In archetype select 'maven-archetype-quickstart' for a simple project or 'maven-archetype-webapp' for a web project.
- In 'pom.xml' add the Spring dependencies:
<a href="https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.springframework" target="_blank">Maven Spring dependencies</a>

**Gradle**

Gradle is a more modern and flexible build automation tool than Maven. Instead of XML, it uses groovy or kotlin based script language (called DSL - Domain-Specific Language), which makes it more expressive and powerful. The main file is `build.gradle`. Gradle adopts a "Convention Configuration" approach, offering greater freedom to customize the build process.

**IntelliJ Spring initializer**

Initializer for IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate.

- Create a new project in IntelliJ IDEA and select 'Spring' in generators.