# Management Functions

They are essential to ensure that the Node.js application is correctly connected to the database before performing CRUD operations or any other interaction with MongoDB.

## .connect()

The `mongoose.connect()` function is used to establish the connection to a MongoDB database.

Arguments = connection URI, settings object(optional).

Settings object:

- dbName: The name of the database you want to use.
- bufferCommands: Allows Mongoose to buffer commands to improve performance.
- useNewUrlParser: Allows Mongoose to use the MongoDB URL parser.
- useUnifiedTopology: Opts for the new MongoDB connection monitoring engine.

*Example:*

```typescript
import mongoose from 'mongoose';

mongoose.connect('mongodb://localhost:27017/nomeDoBanco', { 
    dbName: "next-api",
    bufferCommands: true,
    useNewUrlParser: true,
    useUnifiedTopology: true
});
```

## .connection

The `mongoose.connection` provides access to the instance of the current connection to the MongoDB database. This allows you to manage events related to the connection, such as monitoring when it was opened, closed or an error occurred. You can use this property to subscribe to events or directly manipulate the connection.

Main events:

- connected: Occurs when the connection to MongoDB is opened successfully.
- disconnected: Occurs when the connection is closed.
- error: Triggered when there is an error in the connection.
- reconnected: Triggered when the connection is reestablished after a drop.
- close: Occurs when the connection is explicitly closed.

*Example:*

```typescript
import mongoose from 'mongoose';

const db = mongoose.connection;

db.on('connected', () => {
  console.log('Connection with MongoDB established.');
});

db.on('error', (err) => {
  console.error('Error connecting to MongoDB:', err);
});

db.on('disconnected', () => {
  console.log('Connection with MongoDB closed.');
});
```

**readyState:**

`mongoose.connection.readyState` is a property that indicates the current state of the Mongoose connection to the MongoDB database. This property returns a number representing different connection states.

Valid states:

- 0: disconnected
- 1: connected
- 2: connecting
- 3: disconnecting

*Example:*

```typescript
import mongoose from 'mongoose';

if (mongoose.connection.readyState === 1) {
  console.log('Connected to MongoDB.');
} else {
  console.log('Disconnected from MongoDB.');
}
```