# Schema and Model

Schema defines the structure of documents that will be stored in the database. It allows you to define field-specific data types, validations, and behaviors.

The Model is the representation of the schema in MongoDB. It allows you to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on documents.

## Schema

when defining a schema using `mongoose.Schema`, you typically pass an object containing the schema properties (the fields and their types), but there are also additional schema options that can modify the behavior of the schema. These options can be passed as the second argument to the mongoose.Schema constructor.

**Schema Properties:**

- type: The data type of the field(String, Number, Date, Boolean, ObjectId...).
- unique: Indicates whether the field value must be unique(true or false).
- default: The default value for the field.

**Schema Properties(validation):**

- required: Indicates whether the field is required or not(true or false).
- minlength/maxlength: Sets the minimum/maximum length of a string.
- min/max: Sets the minimum/maximum value of a number.
- validate: Allows you to add custom validations.

**Aditional Schema Options:**

- timestamps: Adds createdAt and updatedAt fields to the schema.
- versionKey: You can disable this or change its name with this option.
- _id: You can disable this or change its name with this option.
- strict: Determines whether MongoDB allows documents that contain fields not specified in the schema.
- toJSON and toObject: These options allow you to customize the behavior of documents when they are converted to JSON or plain objects.

*Example:*

```typescript
import { Schema } from "mongoose";

const UserSchema = new Schema({
    name: { type: String, required: true },
    age: { type: Number, required: true, min:[18, "Age must be greater than 18."] },
    email: { type: String, required: true, unique: true },
    spouse: { type: Schema.Types.ObjectId, ref: "User" }
}, {
    timestamps: true,
    versionKey: false,
});
```

## Model

After defines a Schema, you can create a Model using the `mongoose.model()` function. The model() function takes two arguments: the name of the model and the schema.

*Example:*

```typescript
import { model } from "mongoose";

const User = model("User", UserSchema);
```

**models:**

`mongoose.models` is an object that contains all the models defined in your application. You can access the model by using the model name as a key.

*Example:*

```typescript
import { models } from "mongoose";

const User = models.User;
```

OBS: In environments where code may be loaded more than once or "recycled", you can use `models.modelName || model("modelName", modelSchema)` to ensure that the model is only created once.

```typescript
import { model, models } from "mongoose";

const User = models.User || model("User", UserSchema);
```