## Iterator

An iterator is an interface in Java (from the java.utile package) that allows you to travel (or iterate) the elements of a collection, such as a List, Set or Map, sequentially. It is useful when you want to access the elements of a collection without having to know how it is implemented internally (array, linked list, etc.).

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
    List<String> list = new ArrayList<>();
    list.add("A");
    list.add("B");
    list.add("C");
    printList(list);
}

void printList(List<String> list) {
    Iterator<String> data = list.listIterator();
    while(data.hasNext()) {
        System.out.println(data.next());
    }
}
```

## Variants

**Iterator**

The basic interface.

It works in any collection, but only allows iteration forward and removal.

- `Boolen Hasnext()`: Returns True if there are more elements to go, otherwise false.
- `t Next()`: Returns the next element of the collection and advances the iterator cursor.
- `void removes()` (optional): Remove the last element returned by Next () from the collection (not used in your code).

**ListIterator**

It is a direct iterator subclass.

Exclusive for List (eg arraylist, linkedlist) when you need more control (bidirectionality or modification).

- `Boolean Hasprevious()`: Verify if there are previous elements.
- `t Previous()`: Returns the previous element and moves the cursor back.
- `int nextindex()`: Returns the index of the next element.
- `INT PREVIOUSINDEX()`: Returns the previous element index.
- `void set(t e)`: replaces the last element returned.
- `void add(t e)`: inserts an element in the current position.

**Spliterator**

It is an independent interface.

Most modern variant of the iterator designed to support parallel processing (eg with streams). It means "Spliceble Itector" (divisible iterator).
Used in streams and parallel operations (eg stream (). Parallel ()). It is not common in simple manual iteration.

- `Boolean Tryadvance(Consumer <? Super T> Action)`: Performs an action in the next element and advances (similar to Next () with a consumer).
- `Spliterator <t> Trysplit()`: divides the iterator into two parts for parallel processing.
LONG ESTEITESIZE (): Estimates the number of remaining elements.
- `INT CHARACTERISTICS()`: Returns Splitterator properties (eg, orderly, distinct).

**Enumeration**

It is an independent and older interface.

Used in legated classes such as vector and hashtable. It is not a direct extension of iterator, but it serves a similar purpose.