# App Router (Next.js version 13 or above)

Based on a new folder called 'app'. This new model offers more flexibility and new features. It is inspired by React Server Components and takes advantage of a more modern architecture, with better support for features such as:

- nested layouts
- Hybrid rendering (client-side and server-side with server components)
- streaming
- route segmentation.

## Nested routes

The app router is based on a folder structure, which allows you to create nested routes.

*Example:*

- `app/page.jsx` = route to `/`.
- `app/about/page.jsx` = route to `/about`.
- `app/about/team/page.jsx` = route for `/about/team`.

OBS: Layout file is used to customize and wrap your pages in a global layout.

*Example:*

- `app/layout.jsx` = layout for all pages.
- `app/about/layout.jsx` = layout for `/about` and `/about/team`.

## Dynamic routes

Create dynamic routes by using '[parameter]' in the folder name.

*Example:*

`app/post/[id]/page.jsx` - `post/1` | `post/2` | `post/3`

The parameter value is passed to the page as a prop.

## Server side rendering(SSR)

In the app router, both the *data fetching* and the *component rendering* happen on the server by default. The entire component (not just the data) is rendered on the server as a React Server Component.

OBS: The new server-side component approach is enabled by default, but when you need to render a component on the client side you can use 'use client' to wrap the component.

*Example:*

```jsx
'use client'

import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation'
//...
```

## Data fetching

With App Router, the components are rendered on the server side, so the fetching of data can be done directly in the component.

*Example:*

```jsx
async function getData(id) {
  const res = await fetch(`https://api.example.com/posts/${id}`);
  return res.json();
}

export default async function PostPage({ params }) {
  const post = await getData(params.id);

  return <div>{post.title}</div>;
}
```

OBS: When a component is rendered on the client side, with 'use client', the data fetching needs to be done in the browser. (using useEffect like in normal React).