# Pages Router

Until Next.js version 12 (and available as an option in version 13), the navigation system was based on the pages directory. Each file within this folder represented a route in the application.

## Routes

The pages directory is a folder that contains all the pages of your application.

*Example:*

- `pages/index.jsx` = route to `/`.
- `pages/about.jsx` = route to `/about`.
- `pages/about/team.jsx` = route for `/about/team`.

OBS: Layout is used to customize and wrap your pages in a global layout.

*Example:*

```jsx	
function Page() {
  return <p>Page content here</p>;
}

Page.getLayout = function getLayout(page) {
  return (
    <Layout>
      {page}
    </Layout>
  );
}

export default Page;
```

## Dynamic routes

Create dynamic routes by using '[parameter]' in the file name.

*Example:*

`pages/post/[id].jsx` - `post/1` | `post/2` | `post/3`

The parameter value can be acessed in the page by useRouter(). or data fetching functions.

```jsx
// pages/post/[id].jsx
import { useRouter } from 'next/router';

const Post = () => {
  const router = useRouter();
  const { id } = router.query;

  return <div>ID: {id}</div>;
};

export default Post;
```

## Server side rendering(SSR)

In the pages router, only *data fetching* happens on the server when using `getServerSideProps`, but the React components themselves are rendered client-side after the server fetches the data.

## Data fetching

In Pages Router, Next.js offers specific functions for loading data, each with a distinct behavior:

- `getStaticProps`: Used to generate static pages at build time. The page is generated once and served to all users.
- `getStaticPaths`: Used together with `getStaticProps` to generate static dynamic pages, such as blog post pages. It defines which dynamic pages need to be pre-generated.
- `getServerSideProps`: Used to generate pages on the server side on each request. This ensures that the data is always up to date.